Dear EAS Annual Meeting 2020 Board,

We are writing to you with regards to our proposal to host the
Nederlandse Astronomen Conferentie (NAC) as a symposium during EAS AM
2020. The meeting is intended for astronomy students and professional
astronomers to come together to share their recent research results
and meet science journalists, industry partners and science policy
makers. An important part of the NAC is the development of the Dutch
astronomical family feeling. The NAC is typically attended by a few
hundred people. From the perspective of the EAS AM, the opportunities
offered by hosting the conferences simultaneously are plenty. The NAC
2020 LOC asserts that having so many Dutch astronomers present at the
EAS AM venue enriches the couleur locale for astronomers from abroad,
who can more easily get in touch with Dutch culture and traditions, as
well as with Dutch flagship projects, such as the LOFAR radio
telescope and SRON’s ATHENA mission.

Our request is for 1 large auditorium (75-100 people) and 1 small room
(15 people) for Tuesday to Friday (4 days) from 14:30 to 18:00 in two
slots of 1:30 hours. A range of topics will need to be covered by both
talks and hands-on sessions (in parallel). Each day will start with a
'focus talk', given by an invited speaker. This presentation is
followed by 45 minutes of contributed talks (15 min each). The day is
closed by another invited talk. This second invitee should present a
topic's overview.

During the talks, there will be more hands-on 'hack' sessions in
parallel in a smaller room.

This smaller room can then serve to people for discussions, exchange
experience and establish new collaborations, gain hands-on experience
under the supervision of an expert in e.q. media training, LOFAR,
GAIA, AMUSE, ALMA or learn how to reduce data from professsionals
working in these fields.

Although the NAC is typically attended by a few hundred people, the
fact that it will be held concurrent and colocated with EAS AM will
mean that NAC will not be hosting all of them at the same time. For
that reason, we expect an auditorium for ~100 people and a small room
for ~15 people to be enough.

We would use two rooms (Tuesday to Friday) for the afternoons from 14:30 PM to 18:00 PM 
A)	1 large auditorium (75-100 people) 
B)	1 small meeting room (15 people) 
Each room will be used for two 1.5-hour blocks for each of the four days.

The list of topics should include Outreach, Instrumentation,
Simulations and modeling, Multi-messenger astronomy, Imaging,
Spectroscopy, Theory, and Interferometry, but of course with a focus
on Dutch astronomy. We strive for a balance in senior and junior
researchers, in gender balance, on topical coverage, institutional and
geographical coverage. We expect to invite people from the following
institutions: University of Groningen (RuG), Leiden University (LU),
Radboud University (RU), VU Amsterdam (VU), ASTRON, SRON, TU Delft,
NIKHEF, with contribution from Belgian astronomy.

So far we have identified the following potential invited speakers (no
speakers have been contacted yet or have confirmed):

1a (Outreach): Pedro Russo (LU), Peter Barthel (RuG), Joeri van Leeuwen (UvA, Vici), Bas Haring (UL), Ionica Smeets (UL)
1b (Instrumentation): Paul Groot (RU), Peter Jonker (RU), Hiroki Akamatsu (SRON), Aurora Simionescu (SRON), Daphne Stam (TU-Delft, Veni/Vidi)
2a (Simulations and modeling): Amina Helmi (RuG, Vici + Spinoza), Adrian Hamers (IAS)
2b (Multi-messenger astronomy): Gijs Nelemans (RU, Vici), Michiel van der Klis (UvA, Spinoza), Yamila Miguel (UL)
3a (Imaging): Marc Verheijen (RuG, Vici), Ewine van Dishoeck (LU, Spinoza)
3b (Spectroscopy): Ignas Snellen (LU, Vici), Xander Tielens (LU, Spinoza), Elisa Constantini (UvA), Jelle Kaastra (SRON)
4a (Theory): Sera Markoff (UvA, Vici), Erik Verlinde (UvA), Chris van den Broek (NIKHEF, Vici), Elena Sellentin (UL)
4b (Interferometry): Heino Falkce (RU, Spinoza), Stephanie Cazeay (TU-Delft)

Whereas EAS will be equipped with electronic posters, during the NAC,
we would prefer the use of paper posters, which can be displayed in
the long corridor connecting the hotel with the main venue. In this
way, the NAC posters remain distinct from the EAS posters, and we can
have our NAC poster prize as usual.

We will have a posterprize committee consisting of:
Peter Barthel (RUG)         
Daphne Stam (TU Delft)         
Paul Groot (RU)
Lex Kaper (UvA)
Frans Snik (LU)

In addition to the auditorium and the small meeting room we would also
like to use the vide above the main auditorium for the entire week as
a 'Dutch Garden' for the Dutch astronomy community to informally
meet. At the Dutch Garden we will have 4 lego building projects, each
of one of the universities in the Netherlands, and each of them will
build a VLT.  After the conference, they can bring their own built VLT
to their home institution to display. The cost for this activity is
about 700euro/VLT. Alternatively, we could contract a company to make
a very large photo puzzle depicting something related to Dutch
astronomy and let the attendees put it together.

We intend to include the following outreach activities. 

To involve Dutch primary school children, we will organize a
kids-press-conference. Local primary schools (8th grade) will be
invited to ask questions during the kids-press-conference. During this
event the children can ask questions to a real professor. We will
arrange for a panel of highly esteemed (and not scary) professors to
address the kids' questions.

We also intend to organize a PhD write session and media training on
popularizing their PhD or talk to the press on science. Under
supervision of a number of journalists, graduate students can write a
small newspaper article about the most exciting result from their PhD
thesis (or a general astrophyiscs topic). Three (depending how many
can be published) of these will be published in a paper venue for
children such as the Kids Week. This activity can be held in one of
the small meeting rooms.

It would be possible to accomodate 1, 2 or even 3 mobile planetaria in
the great hall of the Holiday Inn. 

Many of the EAS volunteers will be Dutch MSc and PhD students.  It
would be a nice gesture to organize a dedicated dinner or "borrel" for
them, which would achieve the objective to get to know them also
better from a social perspective.

With kind regards,
Simon Portegies Zwart (chair),
Jab Lub,
Huub Rottgering,
and other members OC:
Lydia Stofanova,
Dirk van Dam,
Rafael Mostert,
Frits Sweijen,
Martijn Wilhelm,
Martijn Oei 
